.\" Copyright (c) 2011 Research Engineering Development, Inc.
.\" Author: Alfred Perlstein <alfred@FreeBSD.org>
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd December 21, 2011
.Dt WRITEVV 2
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm writevv
.Nd write output
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libwritevv
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/types.h
.In sys/uio.h
.In unistd.h
.In writevv.h
.Ft int
.Fn writevv "const int *fds" "int fdcnt" "const struct iovec *iov" "int iovcnt" "size_t *returns" "int *errors"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
A highly optimized syscall to zero-copy broadcast the same data to multiple
socket filedescriptors.
.Pp
The
.Fn writevv
system call
attempts to write the iovec
.Fa iov
to the objects referenced by the descriptor array
.Fa fds
of length
.Fa fdcnt .
.Pp
The effect is intended to be identical to calling
.Xr writev 2
on each descriptor in turn.
The return values and errno values from each writev call are returned
in the
.Fa returns
and
.Fa errors
arrays respectively mapped.
.Sh SPECIAL OPTIMIZATIONS
When used on sockets, the data referenced by
.Fa iov
is copied a single time into the kernel memory and then shallow copies
of the data are made for each send.
.Pp
entry specifies the base address and length of an area
in memory from which data should be written.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
The writevv call will return the number of successful
.Xr writev 2
calls performed in which the
.Em entirety
of the data to written was successfully output.  A partial write will not
count towards the total number of successful writes.
.Pp
Most errors from
.Xr writev 2
will
.Em NOT
be returned, instead the the
.Fa errors
array should be consulted.
.Pp
A return value of -1 indicates a higher level error in the call.
See the ERRORS section for details.
.Sh ERRORS
The
.Fn writevv
system calls
will fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EFAULT
Part of
.Fa iov
or data to be written to the file
points outside the process's allocated address space.
.It Bq Er EINVAL
The total size of
.Fa iov
is greater than
.Dv INT_MAX
bytes, or the value
.Fa iovcnt
exceeds
.Dv UIO_MAXIOV .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr writev 2
.Sh AUTHORS
The writevv system call and this manual page were written by
.An Alfred Perlstein
.Aq alfred@freebsd.org .
